docs/appendix.rst, before:

********
Appendix
********

.. todo:
   Change the link to the ABR store

.. _supported-hardware:

Supported Hardware
==================

Boards and IP-only packages can be purchased through
`Applied Brain Research <https://appliedbrainresearch.com/products/brainboard/>`_.


DE1-SoC
-------

   .. image:: _static/de1.jpg
      :alt: DE1 board
      :width: 45%
      :align: right
      :target: https://appliedbrainresearch.com/products/brainboard/

.. Pipes add vertical space

|
|

The DE1-SoC board is manufactured by Terasic and uses an
Intel Altera Cyclone V FPGA paired with a dual core ARM Cortex A9.
(`DE1 docs <https://www.nengo.ai/nengo-de1/>`_)

|
|


PYNQ-Z1
-------

   .. image:: _static/pynq.jpg
      :alt: PYNQ board
      :width: 45%
      :align: right
      :target: https://appliedbrainresearch.com/products/brainboard/

|
|

The PYNQ-Z1 board is manufactured by Digilent and uses a ZYNQ 7020 FPGA
paired with a dual core ARM Cortex A9.
(`PYNQ docs <https://www.nengo.ai/nengo-pynq/>`_)

|
|


.. _ssh-key:

Generating and Using SSH keys
=============================

SSH keys allow SSH connections to be made without the need for a password. SSH
keys operate in pairs: a *private key* kept on the host (local) machine, and a
*public key* copied to the `authorized_keys` file on the FPGA board.

To generate and use an SSH key with NengoFPGA, follow the instructions below.
To support both the Windows and Unix-based operating systems, NengoFPGA uses
SSH keys using the OpenSSH format.

Windows
-------

The best way to generate an SSH key in Windows is to use PuTTY_.

.. _PuTTY: https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html

1. Download and install PuTTY_.
#. Under the **PuTTY** group in the windows start menu, run the **PuTTYgen**
   application.
#. Click the **Generate** button, and follow the on-screen instructions to
   generate a random SSH key pair.

Exporting the SSH *private key*:

1. Click the **Conversions** drop-down menu, and select **Export OpenSSH key**.
   Leave the **Key passphrase** blank.
#. Choose a save location for the SSH key (e.g., the install location of
   `nengo-fpga`).

Exporting the SSH *public key*:

1. Keep PuTTYgen open. Do not regenerate the SSH key pair.
#. SSH into the FPGA board using a username and password combination.
   The username used will have the SSH keys generated with these steps
   associated with it.
#. Edit the ``~/.ssh/authorized_keys`` file with a text editor
   (e.g., ``nano``, ``vi``).
#. Copy the *public key* text from the **Public key for pasting into OpenSSH
   authorized_keys file** area of PuTTYgen and paste it at the end of the
   `authorized_keys` file.


Linux and Mac
-------------

.. rst-class:: compact

1. On your computer, open a terminal. If SSH has not installed been installed
   on your computer, install it with ``sudo apt-get install ssh`` (Linux) or
   ``sudo brew install ssh`` (Mac).
#. Enter the command: ``ssh-keygen -t rsa``
#. The command above will prompt for a location to save the SSH *private key*.
   Leaving this blank will save it to the default location of ``~/.ssh/id_rsa``.
#. The ``ssh-keygen`` command will also prompt for a passphrase. Leave the
   passphrase empty (press **↵ Enter** twice).
#. Copy the SSH *public key* to the FPGA board with the command
   ``ssh-copy-id -i <location of private key> <ssh username>@<FPGA board IP>``.
   For example:

   .. code-block:: bash

      ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub xilinx@10.162.177.99

.. note::
   If the ``ssh-copy-id`` command does not work, or is unavailable, copy the
   contents of the `*.pub` file (this is the generated SSH *public key*)
   located in the same location as the SSH *private key* into the
   ``~/.ssh/authorized_keys`` of the appropriate user on the FPGA board.


Configuring the `fpga_config` file
------------------------------------

After generating the SSH key pair, test that they have been properly installed
by SSH'ing into the FPGA board. If a connection is made without needing to
provide a password, then the SSH key has been successfully installed.

If the SSH key has been successfully installed NengoFPGA can be configured to
use the keys by replacing the `ssh_pwd` entry with `ssh_key`, and providing the
location of the SSH *private key* on the host system. As an example, if the SSH
*private key* is located in ``~/.ssh/id_rsa`` on the host system, the `ssh_key`
entry would be:

.. code-block:: none

   ssh_key = ~/.ssh/id_rsa


.. note::
   The config file can have *either* an `ssh_pwd` entry or an `ssh_key` entry
   but **not both**.

.. _ip-addr:

Finding your IP Address
=======================

To find the IP address of your computer follow the instructions for your
operating system below.


.. note::
   Ignore any address like **127.0.0.1**


.. todo::
   Maybe add screenshots?

Windows
-------
1. Press **⊞ Win** + **r** to open the **Run** dialog box.
#. Type in ``cmd`` and press **↵ Enter** to open the windows command prompt.
#. Type ``ipconfig``, and look for the `IPv4 Address` entry of the desired
   network interface. This is your IP address.

.. |winkey| unicode:: 0x229E

Linux and Mac
-------------

1. Open a terminal and type ``ifconfig | grep "inet "``

Commit message:

Add quickstart section
- Fixes 17
- Updated hw section in appendix since we no longer sell boards
- Added a scripted NengoFPGA example
- Added a bitstream section to point to device-specific docs
- Add some detail to the Device ID section
- Fix email on contact us page

docs/appendix.rst, after:

********
Appendix
********

.. todo:
   Change the link to the ABR store

.. _supported-hardware:

Supported Hardware
==================

IP packages can be purchased through
`Applied Brain Research <https://appliedbrainresearch.com/products/brainboard/>`_.


DE1-SoC
-------

   .. image:: _static/de1.jpg
      :alt: DE1 board
      :width: 45%
      :align: right
      :target: https://www.terasic.com.tw/cgi-bin/page/archive.pl?Language=English&No=836

.. Pipes add vertical space

|
|

The DE1-SoC board is manufactured by Terasic and uses an
Intel Altera Cyclone V FPGA paired with a dual core ARM Cortex A9.
The board is available for `purchase from Terasic <https://www.terasic.com.tw/cgi-bin/page/archive.pl?Language=English&No=836>`_.
See the (`Nengo DE1 docs <https://www.nengo.ai/nengo-de1/>`_) for how to use
this board with NengoFPGA.

|
|


PYNQ-Z1
-------

   .. image:: _static/pynq.jpg
      :alt: PYNQ board
      :width: 45%
      :align: right
      :target: https://store.digilentinc.com/pynq-z1-python-productivity-for-zynq-7000-arm-fpga-soc/

|
|

The PYNQ-Z1 board is manufactured by Digilent and uses a ZYNQ 7020 FPGA
paired with a dual core ARM Cortex A9. The board is available for
`purchase from Digilent <https://store.digilentinc.com/pynq-z1-python-productivity-for-zynq-7000-arm-fpga-soc/>`_.
See the (`Nengo PYNQ docs <https://www.nengo.ai/nengo-pynq/>`_) for how to use
this board with NengoFPGA.

|
|


.. _ssh-key:

Generating and Using SSH keys
=============================

SSH keys allow SSH connections to be made without the need for a password. SSH
keys operate in pairs: a *private key* kept on the host (local) machine, and a
*public key* copied to the `authorized_keys` file on the FPGA board.

To generate and use an SSH key with NengoFPGA, follow the instructions below.
To support both the Windows and Unix-based operating systems, NengoFPGA uses
SSH keys using the OpenSSH format.

Windows
-------

The best way to generate an SSH key in Windows is to use PuTTY_.

.. _PuTTY: https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html

1. Download and install PuTTY_.
#. Under the **PuTTY** group in the windows start menu, run the **PuTTYgen**
   application.
#. Click the **Generate** button, and follow the on-screen instructions to
   generate a random SSH key pair.

Exporting the SSH *private key*:

1. Click the **Conversions** drop-down menu, and select **Export OpenSSH key**.
   Leave the **Key passphrase** blank.
#. Choose a save location for the SSH key (e.g., the install location of
   `nengo-fpga`).

Exporting the SSH *public key*:

1. Keep PuTTYgen open. Do not regenerate the SSH key pair.
#. SSH into the FPGA board using a username and password combination.
   The username used will have the SSH keys generated with these steps
   associated with it.
#. Edit the ``~/.ssh/authorized_keys`` file with a text editor
   (e.g., ``nano``, ``vi``).
#. Copy the *public key* text from the **Public key for pasting into OpenSSH
   authorized_keys file** area of PuTTYgen and paste it at the end of the
   `authorized_keys` file.


Linux and Mac
-------------

.. rst-class:: compact

1. On your computer, open a terminal. If SSH has not installed been installed
   on your computer, install it with ``sudo apt-get install ssh`` (Linux) or
   ``sudo brew install ssh`` (Mac).
#. Enter the command: ``ssh-keygen -t rsa``
#. The command above will prompt for a location to save the SSH *private key*.
   Leaving this blank will save it to the default location of ``~/.ssh/id_rsa``.
#. The ``ssh-keygen`` command will also prompt for a passphrase. Leave the
   passphrase empty (press **↵ Enter** twice).
#. Copy the SSH *public key* to the FPGA board with the command
   ``ssh-copy-id -i <location of private key> <ssh username>@<FPGA board IP>``.
   For example:

   .. code-block:: bash

      ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub xilinx@10.162.177.99

.. note::
   If the ``ssh-copy-id`` command does not work, or is unavailable, copy the
   contents of the `*.pub` file (this is the generated SSH *public key*)
   located in the same location as the SSH *private key* into the
   ``~/.ssh/authorized_keys`` of the appropriate user on the FPGA board.


Configuring the `fpga_config` file
------------------------------------

After generating the SSH key pair, test that they have been properly installed
by SSH'ing into the FPGA board. If a connection is made without needing to
provide a password, then the SSH key has been successfully installed.

If the SSH key has been successfully installed NengoFPGA can be configured to
use the keys by replacing the `ssh_pwd` entry with `ssh_key`, and providing the
location of the SSH *private key* on the host system. As an example, if the SSH
*private key* is located in ``~/.ssh/id_rsa`` on the host system, the `ssh_key`
entry would be:

.. code-block:: none

   ssh_key = ~/.ssh/id_rsa


.. note::
   The config file can have *either* an `ssh_pwd` entry or an `ssh_key` entry
   but **not both**.

.. _ip-addr:

Finding your IP Address
=======================

To find the IP address of your computer follow the instructions for your
operating system below.


.. note::
   Ignore any address like **127.0.0.1**


.. todo::
   Maybe add screenshots?

Windows
-------
1. Press **⊞ Win** + **r** to open the **Run** dialog box.
#. Type in ``cmd`` and press **↵ Enter** to open the windows command prompt.
#. Type ``ipconfig``, and look for the `IPv4 Address` entry of the desired
   network interface. This is your IP address.

.. |winkey| unicode:: 0x229E

Linux and Mac
-------------

1. Open a terminal and type ``ifconfig | grep "inet "``
